docs: Define an approach for building and shipping block node containers without all plugins (#1927)
hiero-ledger/hiero-block-node: docs/design/deployment-with-selected-plugins.md

# Deployment with Selected Plugins

## Table of Contents

1. [Purpose](#purpose)
2. [Goals](#goals)
3. [Design](#design)

## Purpose

> We need the ability to deliver images customized to archive-only nodes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need the ability to deliver customized images for remote full history and
```

> partial history nodes, and full history nodes. We also need to support easily

Reviewer: If we do images just the 2 - LFH or RFH
```suggestion
and local full history nodes. We also need to support easily
```

adding or removing plugins as part of a deployment process, including adding
future community or user developed plugins.

## Goals

1. Build with all Hiero-defined plugins in the block node repo for E2E testing.
2. Build with only the minimum required plugins for use by Helm chart deployments
   that add plugins dynamically based on chart configuration.
3. Modify the build to publish all current plugin modules to Maven Central
   as individual libraries so that they can be downloaded individually during Helm chart deployments.

## Design

Create a plugin-free OCI image with a well-defined extension folder
where plugin jars can be added during deployment.
Define helm chart values files for the four current deployments

> (archiver, partial history, full history, kitchen-sink/testing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(RFH, LFH, all plugins testing)
```

We cannot reasonably create OCI images for every possible combination of plugins,
and we want to support third-party plugins or private plugins.
To do that we will add a volume extension point in the OCI image(s)
where an operator can place additional plugins to be loaded.

> The cleanest way to support that at deployment would be to enable the Helm chart

Reviewer: How?
What components would be added to the chart to enable this?

# Deployment with Selected Plugins

## Table of Contents

1. [Purpose](#purpose)
2. [Goals](#goals)
3. [Design](#design)
4. [Acceptance Tests](#acceptance-tests)

## Purpose

We need the ability to deliver image with minimum required plugins. We also need to support easily
adding or removing plugins as part of a deployment process, including adding

> future community or user developed plugins.

Reviewer 2: Minor nitpick:
```suggestion
We need the ability to deliver image with minimum required plugins. We also need to easily support
adding or removing plugins as part of a deployment process, including adding
future community or user developed plugins.
```

## Goals

1. Build with all Hiero-defined plugins in the block node repo for E2E testing.
2. Build with only the minimum required plugins for use by Helm chart deployments
   that add plugins dynamically based on chart configuration.
3. Modify the build to publish core plugin modules to Maven Central
   as individual libraries so that they can be downloaded individually during Helm chart deployments.

> 4. Modify the build to publish image with the minimum required plugins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Modify the build to publish the "bare" image with no plugins.
```

## Design

Create a plugin-free OCI image with a well-defined extension folder
where plugin jars can be added during deployment.
Define helm chart values files for the three current deployments

> (RFH, LFH, all plugins testing)

Author: Refactored

We cannot reasonably create OCI images for every possible combination of plugins,
and we want to support third-party plugins or private plugins.

> To do that we will add a volume extension point in the OCI image(s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do that we will add a volume extension point in the published OCI image
```

Author: Refactored

where an operator can place additional plugins to be loaded.
The cleanest way to support that at deployment would be to enable the Helm chart
to add arbitrary jars to that extension location based on value files, so an operator

> just lists the required jars in their values file and those plugins get loaded into their deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
just lists the required maven dependencies in their values file and those plugins get loaded into that deployment by the init container and script defined in the Helm chart.
```

To achieve that we will have RFH, LFH and all plugins overrides in values-overrides folder.

> Each override file will specify the required plugins for that deployment in initContainers where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each override file will specify the required plugins for that deployment to be used by scripts defined for the Init Container where
```

> the required plugins will be downloaded and put to the /lib folder in block-node-app.

Author: Refactored

## Acceptance Tests

> **Verify e2e tests are passing after the changes**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Verify e2e tests are passing after the changes
```

1. Build and publish the full OCI image with all plugins.
2. Run the existing e2e tests using the full image.

> 3. Verify that all e2e tests pass successfully.

Author: Yes. It seems like I missed to change this part of design doc.
Refactored

> **Verify that the minimal image can be deployed with only the required plugins**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Verify that the minimal image can be deployed with only the required plugins
```

Author: Refactored

1. Build and publish the minimal OCI image with only required plugins.
2. Deploy the minimal image using the Helm chart with no additional plugins.
3. Verify that the deployment is successful and the application starts correctly.

**Verify that additional plugins can be added to the minimal image during deployment**
1. Prepare a set of additional plugin jars to be added.
2. Deploy the minimal image using the Helm chart, specifying the additional plugins in the values file.

> 3. Verify that the deployment is successful and the application starts correctly with the additional plugins loaded.

Author: Refactored
